===================
MongoDB Node Driver
===================

.. default-domain:: mongodb

.. include:: /includes/unicode-checkmark.rst


Introduction
------------
The official MongoDB Node.js driver allows Node applications to connect and perform queries with MongoDB.

Quick Start
-----------
<to fill out later>

Fundamentals
------------
The Fundamentals section defines essential concepts to use the MongoDB
Node.js driver. The CRUD operations subsection illustrates how to read
and write data to MongoDB using Node.js. The authentication subsection
explains the various enterprise and community methods for
authentication. The Logging subsection is a guide showing the
configuration of the driver logger that is responsible for reporting
application events. Finally, the monitoring subsection shows how to
monitor topology events, also known as Server Discovery and Monitoring
(SDAM) events,  in a MongoDB instance, replica set, or sharded cluster.
All users of the MongoDB Node.js driver should understand the concepts
in the Fundamentals section.

Usage Examples
--------------
The Usage Example section illustrates how to use commonly used methods
through brief explanations and opinionated code snippets. This section
is best suited for users who have limited familiarity with the Node.js
driver and want to learn to implement common driver methods quickly. 

API
---
The API section provides API reference and is recommended for users
looking to see the parameters and return values of specific methods.

FAQ 
---
The Frequently Asked Questions (FAQ) section provides answers to the
most commonly asked questions about the MongoDB Node.js Driver. 

Issues & Help
-------------
The Issues & Help Section explains how to report bugs, contribute to the
driver, and find additional resources for asking questions and receiving
help. 


The MongoDB Node driver documentation contains documentation specific to
the Node driver. For the main MongoDB documentation, see the
:manual:`MongoDB Manual </>`.

The Node driver documentation is organized as follows:

.. toctree::
  :titlesonly:
  :maxdepth: 1

  /quick-start
  /fundamentals
  /usage-examples
  /api-documentation
  /faq
  /issues-and-help

Compatibility
-------------

MongoDB Compatibility
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

.. include:: /includes/mongodb-compatibility-table-node.rst

Language Compatibility
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

.. include:: /includes/language-compatibility-table-node.rst
